# Installation

Installing Vibranium is as easy as installing any npm module. All you need is [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed in your system.

## Steps

- ### Install [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/)

  Head over to [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/) homepage and download the latest (Preferably LTS) installer file and install it in your system. To make sure it is installed properly, try running `node --version` and `npm --version` in command line/terminal to see if they are working.

- ### Install Vibranium

  Open Command Line/Terminal in your system and run the following command

  ```shell
  npm install -g vibranium-cli
  ```

  To see if the installation is successful, try running `vib-cli --version` 

  Once you run install Vibranium, you'll have a CLI command (`vib-cli`  alias `vc` ) that you can use to execute vibranium tasks. You can use either `vib-cli`  or `vc`, both give refer to the same command.

>  `vib-cli` or `vc` in short is the command-line executable for Vibranium. Hereafter, I'll be referring to vibranium commands with `vc`, but you can use whichever you feel comfortable with.

> Vibranium commands are globally available in your system. So you can run `vib-cli` or `vc` from any terminal irrespective of the directory the terminal points to.


### Verify the Installation

There are a few important points that we can use to verify if the installation is successful.

1. Make sure Node JS and npn are installed globally
2. Make sure you are able to run the command `vc` from any directory


[Previous](1.2.collections_scenarios_endpoints.md)
[Next](1.4.configuration.md)
