# Creating new tests

You can create new tests by simply creating a new json file and adding the required keys, but to make the process more easier, you can use the `create` command in Vibranium.

```shell
❯ vc c -h                                  
Usage: vc create|c [options]

Create a new scenario test file

Options:
  -c --collection <collection>  Collection Name
  -s --scenario <scenario>      Scenario Name
  -t --template [template]      Create scenario with a template. [t1|t2|t3|e1_github] (default: "t1")
  -h, --help                    output usage information
```

> While creating tests, you need to specify the colletion in which the tests needs to be created using the `-c` option and the scenario name using the `-s` option.

## Templates

Vibranium provides a set of templates that you can use to create tests. These templates can be used by specifying the template name in the `--template` option. They are usually named `t1` to `tn` where each increment stands for increase in complexity. The templates starting with `e` are exammple templates, like `e1_github` refers to example of github API v3.



### User provided Templates

You can have user provided templates also. If you want to have a standard structure for all your tests, you can create a template json and place it in the templates directory inside the tests directory in your workspace. For example, if I have my workspace at `˜/workspace` and my tests directory is named `Vibranum-Tests`, then I'll have a directory structure for my templates as follows:

```shell
˜/
  workspace/
    config.json
    jobs/
      latest/
      job_n/
    logs/
    Vibranium-Tests/
      scenarios/
      payloads/
      schemas/
      templates/
        template_myCustomTemplate.json
        template_myComplexTemplate.json
```



To use the templates, I can use either `vc c --template myCustomTemplate` or `vc c --template myComplexTemplate`

> Make sure the directory structure is correect and that you prefix the templates with `template_`for user provided templates to work.



