# Vibranium



Vibranium is a CLI based API testing and data generation tool built on Node JS. 



## History

Vibranium was initially built around two years ago, using Python as a simple tool that can test APIs that have deep nested dependencies and to use it as a data generation tool. The name Vibranium was suggested by my friend, primarily because we were a fan or Marvel, and secondly because this was meant to be a tool that is powerful enough to break all apps by finding bugs and making them stronger in the process. 

Though it was just meant to be a simple project, people liked the concept and it's simplicity and so started asking for feature requests. Though it was updated for around two years, I felt the need to move from Python because it was getting hard to implement parallel and even driven logic in Python (and also finding contributors in Python was hard for some reason!). So I decided to rewrite the project in a different lanuage that can handle concurrency and I/O very well. My inital plan for the rewite was to use Go, but somehow using Go for JSON processing with unknown types was hard (maybe because I'm a beginner in Golang) and so I decided to use Node JS as JSON+JS combination is amazing and because Node JS handles async I/O very well.



## Future Plans

Vibranium includes a lot of features as of now, but there are a lot of new features that I have in plan, though I can't give an ETA for them.



## Contributing to the Project

If you would like to contribute to the project development, you're always welcome. Feel free to make changes and raise a PR, and/or raise issues in GitHub.

